Hello friends, welcome to TP Insights.
In today's video we will talk
about ISC Lombard. How can
we claim pre and post bills under ISC Lombard? The
complete process.
In today's video I am going to tell you in detail.
First of all we should know
what is pre hospitalization expense and post hospitalization expense. Pre
hospitalization expense means that
when we get admitted in a hospital,
before admission when we
see the doctor in OPD, the doctor
suggests some lab tests in OPD, that is, he gets some lab
tests done or gives some medicines.
After getting the lab tests done and giving some medicines, the doctor sends us home and says
that you take the medicines for two days and see
if you do not get relief, then we will see whether you
need to be admitted or not.
If we do not get relief after two days, then
we go to the hospital again, then the
doctor feels that the patient
's problem has increased and now he
needs to be admitted, then in that condition the hospital
admits the patient, but the
hospital  The
expenses incurred before admission are called pre-hospitalization expenses.
After admission, we
can claim our bills or
take a cashless claim, but
we can also claim the expenses incurred before admission. There is a
provision for that too
in the health insurance policy. Now let's talk
about post-hospitalization. Post-
hospitalization happens when we are
admitted to the hospital and
after admission, when our treatment is complete, then the
hospital discharges us, that is, gives us
leave, and
after getting discharged, the doctor says that
you have to come to the OPD again after two days, that is, you have to
come for follow-up.
When you go for follow-up, the
doctor also gives you some medicines and also gets
some lab tests done, so you incur
expenses again. So, the expenses incurred
after admission are
called post-hospitalization expenses. So,
in the next video, I will tell you
how you can claim pre and post bills step
by step
under ICICI Lombard.  In the video, you guys should stay
till the end on the channel, if you are new then
subscribe to the channel and press the bell icon
so that you keep getting notifications of new videos, so
let's start the video
[Music]
Under the IIC Lombard policy, we
can take two types of claims, one is
cashless claim which we will get by going to a network hospital,
when we get our treatment done in a network hospital, then
we get cashless treatment there, when we get
cashless treatment, then in that condition
we have to claim pre and post bills, so
only claim form A has to be filled,
but if we get
our treatment done in a non-network hospital, then
in that condition we have to fill claim form A as well as
claim form B,
when we fill claim form A, then in the same
we can add our pre expenses as well as post
expenses, that is, the pre-
hospitalization bills or post-
hospitalization bills, we
can add them in claim form A along with the
admission expenses and along with that
we have to fill claim form B also, so these
things you have to do first  You should know that
if you have taken a cashless claim, then you have to fill only Claim
Form A and if you are re-registering the
entire process, that is, you are re-registering the entire claim, then in that
we have to fill Claim Form
A as well as Claim Form B.
So in the next video I will tell you guys by
showing on the screen that
where inside the claim form you have to
fill the amount of pre-hospitalization expenses
and where you have to
fill the amount of post-hospitalization expenses,
what documents have to be attached in supporting.
In the next video I am going to
show you guys on the screen,
Part A of the IAC Lord's Re-registration Claim Form is
open on your screen. I have
already made a video on this form, so by going to that
also you can see the process of
how you have to fill Claim Form A. So
in this, Part A is to be fed by the insured, that is, the
insured person will fill it, so the details of the
insured person will appear here,
I will show you the details in the pre and post
columns in it.  I will take you straight to the basic
details, let me tell you guys, the
details of the policy holder will come here, the
name of the patient, gender, all this has to be
filled in it, address will come, mobile
number will come, after that below it there
is group policy, corporate policy or all this has to be
filled, after this you have to fill the
details of what has been diagnosed in the discharge summary,
in which hospital the patient is admitted, from when to how long he has been
admitted, all these things have to be filled in it,
now we have to see here that where do
we have to fill the amount of pre and post,
see details of claim in it, it is
written pre hospitalization expense,
here we have to fill the
amount of pre hospitalization expense, that is, the
total amount of all our bills of pre hospitalization expense, we have to
fill it here, for how many days we are claiming,
those days have to be mentioned here, similarly
we have to claim the post hospitalization expenses also
here, we have to fill its amount
here, the total bill and for how many
days we are claiming, those days have to be
mentioned here, see the period for this,
this is the period  Here we have to write in days,
so here we have to fill the pre and post
amount and attach a
copy of our bill resources, the discharge summary has to be attached
and whatever bills are there in supporting, that is, the
pre and post bills, have to be
attached in its supporting and
if you are reimbursing, then along with the complete claim
resources, hospitalization
expenses also have to be filled here.
I have made a separate video on how to fill the claim form completely, I will give
its link
in the description of this video. The
details of all the bills that we are claiming can be
filled here like bill number is done,
date of the bill is done, bills have to be attached,
okay, how many bills are there, one, two, four
and the amount has to be written here, if there are
more bills than these then you people have to
attach all the bills here and fill the total amount here,
below we have to tick the documents here
which we are attaching in supporting, so we have to
see what all
documents are there, they have to be ticked here,
you also have to give the bank details here,
see  Here,
after the amount of your bill is passed,
that money will be transferred to your account by the insurance company. You have to
sign here as well. You will have to
sign on this form. You will have to
sign here. The name of the place will be
written here and the date has to be entered here. By
filling this form, you can claim pre and post
bills easily. So in today's
video, I told you
how we can claim pre and post bills under ICICI Lombard.
I have told you the complete process by filling claim form A.
Still, if you have
any question in your mind regarding this video,
you can ask me by writing in the comment section.
Apart from this, if you have
any query related to your health insurance claim,
you can also ask me questions.
You will definitely get answers to all your questions
in a limited time. So, share this video with all the
policy holders of ICICI Lombard.
Do support the channel by subscribing to the channel. So, if you liked this much
video in today's video, then like the
video and subscribe to the channel.
Press the bell icon so that you get
new videos.  If you guys keep getting this notice, then we will meet
in the next video, till then goodbye.